Speaker 1  0:02  
It speaks closer, yep, hello, testing,

Jeffrey Fosgate  0:06  
thank you. Yep, so and you'll see it. It'll, by the time we get really far into this, it'll start to chunk up what it detects into this person said this. This person said,

Speaker 1  0:18  
like, be really close, or it could be like, this close, or because, you know, like, sometimes it's like, all like interference and like in noise and stuff.

Jeffrey Fosgate  0:27  
Yeah, I think where you are right now is probably fine, just as long as you don't, you know, as you talk, in the volume that you're at right now, I think we should be fine. It has a low threshold for detection anyway, to begin, thank you again for agreeing to this interview at this time. I know it might be a little inopportune, but thank you. Anyway, to begin, we'll be recording our conversation here using an application called otter AI that I've explained to you previously. If you could just state that you are okay with allowing this program to be used to record our transcript for this interview.

Unknown Speaker  1:09  
Yes, I'm okay with the transcript being recorded.

Jeffrey Fosgate  1:12  
Okay, awesome. And so before we begin, if you wouldn't mind divulging your year or grade, rather, in college, and also which college you're currently attending.

Speaker 1  1:25  
I am around a junior, junior status at USM, and right now I'm not taking any classes at USM, but I am taking classes at York County Community College I'll satisfy, to satisfy the requirements to get my degree and then transfer back up here, and then here in the main like, take classes over this over, like, next year or whenever, okay? And then like, I can, like, go

Jeffrey Fosgate  1:53  
back and forth. Okay, so just to summarize, you are a junior equivalent, and you are a student at USM and York County Community College, correct? Okay, thank you. So my we're gonna start rather broadly. These questions will all relate, in some broad sense, to your college experience, and I think you'll see where I'm going with them as we continue. But by the end of this, I'll explain to you precisely the details of the interview right now, I've already told you that this is in this is to help with the development process of a web application that should be useful for primarily college students, which is why I've asked You expressly for this interview. So to begin, I'd like to ask, what are some of the biggest frustrations you have experienced throughout your college experience, and to iterate, to reiterate, this does not need to necessarily constitute single events that you found frustrating. It could perhaps, for instance, be some mundane aspect of college that you find frustrating. For instance, a good one could possibly be homework is difficult to complete, right? That could be one example of a frustration. It doesn't necessarily need to be this specific thing happened to me one time, although it can be so just in general, what would be some of your biggest frustrations that you've experienced throughout your college experience. One of

Speaker 1  3:24  
my biggest frustrations in college, throughout the years, is that like trying to, like, understand and trying to understand material you're like, read like, the book, the ebook, or whatever else. Try to understand it. Try to do some of the problems. And some of the problems is like, it like, jump size units on some of the on some something, like the homework and work, and then like, try, like, I get some helpful idea with instructor. And sometimes they're like, hard to reach, and sometimes it's like, hard to reach, hard to, like, get a response in a timely manner.

Jeffrey Fosgate  4:06  
Okay, so just to summarize, to make sure that I'm understanding, it would seem that some of your frustrations would include absorbing and understanding a huge breadth of material that one class may be giving you, for instance, a huge text it depends

Speaker 1  4:26  
on, like, what class, what class I'm taking, and stuff like that, right?

Jeffrey Fosgate  4:33  
It's dependent, of course, but also you've identified that, for instance, there are some teachers that are very difficult to reach out to is very inordinately difficult for a class that might be required, for instance, and also just being able to find them in the first place can sometimes be difficult as well. So are those just some of the frustrations that you've Okay? Thank you. My next question will be. Be. How frustrating has commuting to college been for you so far? Would you say that your commute to college has frustrated your college experience to any degree?

Speaker 1  5:10  
Oh, it has before. A few years ago, I, like, had to take the road to, like, school by bike. I took the bus, and it's like, and like, had to get to school somehow. And it's like, sometimes it would be like, hard. Sometimes take like an hour. Sometimes takes like an hour and a half, all depending on like, what school I'm gonna go to, and then like, app, and then like, afterwards get like, a transportation like, either like train or bus, like, going home, I have to go by a certain like schedule, and if I, like, missed that, but if I missed that schedule, to go to the next one, and then sometimes, like the transportation, not the greatest in me, wow.

Jeffrey Fosgate  5:57  
So it seems that the answer would be an emphatic yes to that, to that latter question, it certainly has frustrated and and I'd say, in a very multifarious way, traffic can be very unpredictable, and maybe the path that you're used to taking from one place to the college and back is locked or specific.

Speaker 1  6:17  
Take the train to like well, then have to walk the rest of the way, only a mile, but still.

Jeffrey Fosgate  6:23  
So it's also multiple forms of transportation, train, vehicle, walking. It's just that aspect of it is very frustrating, and

Speaker 1  6:31  
especially during, like, some of the weather, like incidents, like, sometimes it's like, I won't know, like, how how bad it is until I get there, like, either it's like, snowing, like, take their walk there, it's like, yeah, it's frustrating at times. And so

Jeffrey Fosgate  6:50  
just a follow up, because this will, I think, be pertinent to some of the later questions as well. So you would, you probably say that one thing you wish you could have is maybe some way for this process to be more predictable, I suppose. Yeah, the unpredictability of it is a very, a very frustrating factor of it that you wish could be made a little less.

Unknown Speaker  7:13  
Yes, transportation, in my opinion, should be like better, but I have to do work with what we deal I have to deal with what we would I work with?

Jeffrey Fosgate  7:25  
Would you say that also the work pool and life balance is also something a little frustrating, yes, like, and having to commute between those many locations?

Speaker 1  7:35  
Yeah, exactly because, like, because, like, I have to work, to, like, make a living, and then like, and like, sometimes, like, going to school, and then like, have to, like, go, go back home, and then like, work, and like, yeah, it could sometimes take a toll on you.

Jeffrey Fosgate  7:57  
I understand. And thank you for sharing all of that as well. My next question would be, are you currently renting out a property? As part of your experience is, are you essentially, are you currently renting out a property?

Speaker 1  8:14  
Like, what do you mean, like, renting out, probably like a home, like, or apartment or,

Jeffrey Fosgate  8:21  
I guess, I guess a better question would be, do you have to pay rental fees to live in the place that you are in right now? Is your place of reside? You do okay, because I

Speaker 1  8:33  
live with family at the moment, and then, like, of course, everything, like costs, and like, before I was like, living on my own, but it was, like, a family, family apartment, but like, I was, like, on my own, and then, like, stuff happens, and then

Jeffrey Fosgate  8:50  
that's actually perfect that you mentioned that, well, we'll talk about that a little bit later, not in a way that's too invasive, but just because that is pertinent to the topic of The application in question, what I'd like to ask is, at your current place of residence, how has your experience been with renting it out so far? Would you say that maybe, and this could, you could interpret this in any way you know, is renting it out itself, frustrating, or even just is existing in that particular location.

Speaker 1  9:21  
Oh, it is not, I'm like, I, of course, I live in the middle of the woods. Well, like near, I mean, like near downtown, but like, still far away. It's like, nice and quiet,

Jeffrey Fosgate  9:33  
yeah, so it's, it's sort of, it's not so rural that you have to go out of your way just to get anywhere, and yet, it's not so urban that you're constantly in congestion and constantly in the most hectic aspects of city life that people would

Speaker 1  9:50  
that's what I prefer. I prefer the smaller like areas me

Jeffrey Fosgate  9:53  
too. I can relate. Actually. I'm in a

Speaker 1  9:56  
similar cities. I lived in a city before in the past. Yes, and then like it was supposed to like Los Angeles, oh yeah, it's crazy

Jeffrey Fosgate  10:07  
out there, I can imagine. So now I just like to reveal another detail. This app specifically is going to be one that, if implemented correctly, should help college students rent out properties more effectively. And we haven't quite gotten through some of the bigger details yet, but this could possibly include, for instance, dorm rooms, because I know that those are also things that are rented even if they're more directly connected to

Speaker 1  10:39  
college campuses, especially like with like Portland, like building more, like, more dorms and the campus, and then like Gorham is, like us expanding as well. Oh yeah. So, so it's a different experience, whether you want to live like in the city, type, wherever you want to live in a town that's like anything, like close

Jeffrey Fosgate  10:59  
by, or, you know, keep that thought in mind. Because, again, what you've been saying right now is wonderful, but it's more pertinent to some of the questions that we'll be discussing later. And you'll and you'll see why. So what you're saying right now is great. Just keep some of it in mind. So just put yourself in the situation of I'm looking for, and you've been in this situation before, it would sound like that. You're looking for a property to rent out, and perhaps more specifically, in the frame of mind that I'm a student trying to commute to my classes and maybe be able to do some other things outside of school and work, and also commute to work

Speaker 1  11:41  
as a and also like it, whether you have like a vehicle or not play plays a big role

Jeffrey Fosgate  11:46  
in that as well. Oh, certainly. So my my first question in this kind of string or this vein that we're on is, as a student, what would you want to know about a property before renting it?

Speaker 1  12:01  
I want to know, like, if it's, like, close by, if it's, yeah, if it's close by, like, by schools, is it close by, like, transportation, like, for example, Amtrak, or any other like location, is it by like, busses that you could easily, like, get to? What's the what's the schedule? Way for the busses? Is it gonna be like, one of those, like, oh, it goes all the time, or is it like once an hour, once every couple of hours? It all depends on, like, what you want

Jeffrey Fosgate  12:33  
to go for. Okay, so I'd say, just to summarize that you want. It seems evident to me that proximity to all of these key locations, your workplace, school, etc, is the biggest thing, and then additionally, knowing the transportation around the area. Because, of course, not everyone commutes using their own vehicle. It can be something that happened. Yeah, it can be carpooling, as I know from trying to park at USM, and there'll be carpool spaces there specifically for that purpose. And also, as you've mentioned, trains, Amtrak, for instance. So just just knowing that as well, would you say you'd also more ideally want to know about those schedules for those types of scheduled transportations, busses, trains, etc, as it pertains to your school schedule. That's correct. Okay, so definitely in context of your school schedule and work schedule as well, I'd surmise not conflicting with that

Speaker 1  13:35  
in any way correct and also like the cost, like, I mean, is it gonna be, like, this X amount per day or per week? And if, and if it's X amount for like, day or week, maybe a monthly pass will leak, will, like, save you some money, okay,

Jeffrey Fosgate  13:56  
which I have done in the past. Yeah. So, so also, there's a cost element to it as well, exactly, and that makes sense. You know, college students, they're well known for their affluence, of course,

Speaker 1  14:06  
unless you have money, which I definitely don't,

Jeffrey Fosgate  14:11  
well you're they're plenty in the same boat, for sure. So that's nothing to be ashamed of. I take it. Next question, similar as a student, what would you want to know about a property's landlord before renting it, the person to whom you lease

Speaker 1  14:27  
from, what was like? What's the rating like? Are they like, the good like landlords or the bad landlords? Or what I mean, what do you know about them and like stuff like that? I think that's like, important before you like, try to like rent, try to like, get rent, rent a property or rent like home or like

Jeffrey Fosgate  14:53  
apartment, right? So more broadly, are they a reputable landlord? Someone. That you can depend on to be not too strict about certain things, but also not the kind of person whose property is going to ruination, because they just let anyone rent it, and then it starts to bother you, perhaps because they might have some maybe I'm just creating a scenario here, but just Yeah, so just the general repute of a landlord, essentially, just a good or bad but maybe a one to five stars, that's a that's a suggestion that we've been given for this particular app already, is that maybe a one to five star rating system would not be too

Speaker 1  15:37  
abstract, and then also, like the crime rate around the area. I think that's also, like, important as well, because, like, if you go into the high crime stuff can, like, be broken into, or or whatever else, or there could be like, issues around the neighborhood

Jeffrey Fosgate  15:54  
people, so crime rate as well. That might relate also to what you want to know about a property is, maybe, is the area around the property one that would that you would be comfortable living within? Because, of course, location is important as well. On the topic of proximity. Now, as a student, what would you want to know about your roommates before renting a property with them, assuming that you'd be renting out a property with roommates, because, of course, sometimes the budget, or rather the the costs for renting can be too restricting to simply rent something out by

Speaker 1  16:30  
oneself. I think, like getting to know the roommate, like, whether, whether they have like, whether they can, like, get along with others, or whether they can, like, yeah, get along with others, and then other stuff, like, like, are they going to be reliable? Because if you're not reliable,

Jeffrey Fosgate  16:55  
that's not going to work too well, especially for especially for some of the responsibilities of rental. One of our other interviewees also said that, for instance, they would along the same vein, they would want to know maybe a budget statistic as how much would this person be able to cough up per month for rent? For instance,

Speaker 1  17:17  
to because, like, renting is like expensive, that's supposed to here

Jeffrey Fosgate  17:21  
in Maine. Oh yeah, vacation land is not Yeah,

Speaker 1  17:26  
Vacationland to us, that's for sure, tours, but yeah,

Jeffrey Fosgate  17:30  
it can be, yeah, it can be No, no vacation for in state lessees, that's for sure. But not to expound too much on that. I'm sure you're already familiar with that unfortunate realm of me? Yes, yes. So on a similar vein to the broader frustration question I asked you before, have you experienced any difficulties in renting a property in the past? And if so, what? And this can relate to any part of the rental process. Maybe finding a property in the first place may have been frustrating, or when you moved into the property, it wasn't what you expected, or even something more external to the property, or any aspect of it, such as, I had bad roommates, and they bothered me a lot, just any aspect of the rental process in any way that you

Speaker 1  18:23  
found freshman experience. No, I did not have a difficult time. Oh, good because, like, I, because I worked out with, like, family and stuff, and being going on my own, and, like, be able to have, like, the whole apartment to myself.

Jeffrey Fosgate  18:41  
That's good, too. That's good. It's good that you haven't experienced a lot of frustrations on that. And you know, I, I'm happy to say, I haven't experienced as much either, which is great because those sorts of frustrations.

Speaker 1  18:56  
And it does happen. I see that happen like before when, oh, it's gonna be great. And then like, and they live together and like,

Jeffrey Fosgate  19:05  
no, it's akin to taking a piece of metal, for instance, and bending it back and forth. Because eventually, when you keep doing that, that's good, that part in the middle gets more brittle and brittle before it snaps. Yes, exactly. Not to wax too philosophical, but I'm sure you can agree. Okay, so just a few questions left, if you had to rent out a new property right now, what would be the one thing that would motivate your decision the most? And this is more so an aspect of it, for instance, would it be the size of the property or its proximity to campus? Or affordability? Because that can be a big thing that's weighed out. If there was maybe one single word or phrase that could be used to say, if it doesn't have this, to my standards, I'm not even going to consider it. What would

Speaker 1  19:57  
it be? Affordability? I. Know, because that's, that's one of the most important things, because if you can't afford that, then you have to try to look for something else that's like, like, maybe a little bit further away, and then like, and then you have to, like, keep on looking. It's, it could be a pain.

Jeffrey Fosgate  20:20  
That process can be a pain at times. Yeah? So definitely affordability, you'd say, is maybe the biggest one, is that you definitely want something that's within your budget.

Speaker 1  20:30  
First and foremost, yeah, now that I'm available, things are much easier to like

Jeffrey Fosgate  20:36  
to go about and faster. Oh, so, so, just to So, to add context, would you say that after having retrieved your own vehicle, that you can use the proximity aspect is maybe less front of center than the

Speaker 1  20:51  
affordability aspect? Affordability is the most, I

Jeffrey Fosgate  20:55  
believe, is the most important. Yeah, so yeah, just just that, maybe proximity is less center of mind now that you have a vehicle than it may have been before, when you may have needed to rely more on,

Unknown Speaker  21:07  
say, trains or busses or like family and stuff, but the very

Jeffrey Fosgate  21:13  
occasion to do that, but yeah, just public transportation or whatever transportation is available to you now are on the other end of the spectrum? Are there any aspects of a rental property that would be an immediate deal breaker for you as in as soon as you hear about it, you say, Nope,

Speaker 1  21:34  
I wouldn't want that. I mean, if it's like, if it's like, way too far like, if it's like out of states, that would, that would depends, because, like, out of state it costs, like, more to, like, go to school and like, say, if you change your address, it's like more as being more expensive. But like, probably, like, yeah, I say if it's like, too far out then, then you have to, like, travel,

Jeffrey Fosgate  22:04  
travel that to get there. So it definitely if the proximity of the place is way too far for it to be to gel well with your specific schedule or your specific obligations, that's definitely a deal breaker, right, correct. Okay.

Speaker 1  22:22  
And that's why most students, like, live, they go to that the campus, hmm. Or they know, like, USF is considered a community school, but like, some people are, like, from far away from up north main or or like, the other side of the country, or next state over, I've noticed they don't want to, like, have to travel back and forth, and

Jeffrey Fosgate  22:45  
that was that would cost even more money. I've noticed that too. Yeah, there are a lot of students even, I'm surprised even you know USM this very regional

Speaker 1  22:54  
school, I would say. But it's like, not too many schools have a community, community school like that. I mean, sure people who, like, live not so far, depending on the school, they could, like, easily go there. But like, Maine is, I mean, like, if, if you live, like said, if you, if it's too far, then they don't

Jeffrey Fosgate  23:13  
want to, like, go there. Okay, yeah, so, so certainly, emphatically, it would be proximity. If it's not proximate enough, as in out of state, non approximate, then you would definitely

Speaker 1  23:30  
consider that a huge deal breaker, huge deal breaker, even though it may be cheaper, but the long run, it'll be more expensive, especially with gas, like going back and forth depending on how and like, how

Jeffrey Fosgate  23:44  
long it takes you to get there. Oh, yeah. Oh that, that too actually is also a pretty interesting thing. You know, maybe you'd say that definitely a knowledge of what other utilities are nearby, maybe not necessarily just as it pertains to the property, you know, electricity, Wi Fi, etc, but also, also within your proximity, for instance, is there a gas station nearby? Is there maybe a car repair center nearby?

Speaker 1  24:16  
There's there something's gonna happen. I mean, like you can't control what's gonna happen. And like, then you have to, like, Oh, if it breaks down, then what I'm gonna do is, like, try to rent a vehicle. Then that

Jeffrey Fosgate  24:32  
could cost as well. Yeah, definitely a big thing. A big theme I'm seeing is preparedness. Definitely, you want to be prepared ahead of time for any kind of litany of events that could happen and mar the experience of getting to college and etc, and just being able to attend to your responsibilities in life. Because, again,

Speaker 1  24:52  
you know college students, they don't just have stuff happens in life, and yeah, and like, if you're not. Prepared for it, then it'll take

Jeffrey Fosgate  25:01  
you a lot longer to, like, recover, and even totally beyond college too. Yeah, exactly. So I've completed all of the specific questions that I have, and just seeing that this interview has gotten become a bit protracted, a little beyond the 30 minute measure we were hoping for. But, and that's not at all your fault. You've been very, very thorough, and I thank you for that, because, again, this is going to be very useful for us in our development. But one final thing I want to do is I have a description here of the project, and I'm just going to read it to you, and then ask you, maybe in a more direct way, what kind of features from that vision that I describe, and it's going to be very terse, maybe one paragraph and a few, maybe a list of recommended features. And then I'll simply ask you what maybe wasn't covered here that I would definitely want to see, if I was renting out a property, you know, maybe something that just given all that I've stated here already for feedback I would really want to see, or that would convenience me if I were in this context or in this situation. So I'll, I'll begin this app will be called main pad finder, and the problem that this works to solve is this, this is just a so students face challenges finding affordable, suitable housing near campus with reliable information about landlords and properties. This project helps them get different data about their desired housing options, which I think relates a lot to what you're saying about affordability being important, proximity, many other things now, some suggested Key features include commuting time calculation and mapping, or commute

Speaker 1  26:58  
time calculation and Mapping, sort of, sort of like a GPS type of thing, like or one of those, like the app that, like, calculates how long it'll take you,

Jeffrey Fosgate  27:09  
or something similar to that. I'm sure you've I'm sure you've used Google Maps before, for instance, right to say, Can I, how do I get from x location to y location, and how long will that take? I imagine that's the idea, except maybe this would be implemented more in context, expressly of your university or even your workplace that you're using to pay for university. Another key feature would be a landlord and property rating system, which I think is similar to what you've explained as well just being able to know the reputability of your landlord and also some other aspects about your property that are quite crucial, roommate matching based on preferences,

Speaker 1  27:50  
as you say, like purposes, as in like, not necessarily like, like to do everything, but like, but like more experience of like, what's the person like, and something like that I want. Like, I want like, a roommate that's like, this, this, this, and I never get along

Jeffrey Fosgate  28:12  
or not. It basically, it's not necessarily a superficial thing of, I just want a roommate with the same interests as me. It's also a utility thing in the sense of, can I just basically get along with this person and not have a miserable time trying to weave around them? Or are

Speaker 1  28:30  
we gonna get along at all? Because they say that happen like, goes great at the beginning, and then, well, it goes down

Jeffrey Fosgate  28:37  
there from there, and it could all just it spirals down quite quickly just because of the negative the negative influence there. I know that people say you ought to surround yourself with people who you want to emulate, in some sense, people who who agree with your values or demonstrate them in a really potent way. So that kind of relates to that, also price trend analysis and alerts. So it's less, I would say, in this case, about just listing how much this costs, and also about how has this gone up or down

Speaker 1  29:16  
over time, correct. Because, like some, some, some areas will be, or some rentals will be, oh, it's gonna be this, this per month, or whatever it's gonna be, and then, and if you don't get it right away, or if no one does that, it could change like down the road, like, it could change like in a month, or a few months or a year, whether it's going to be like, was going to be like, either a rental or like one of those, what do you call it? Not contract, but the lease. Yes, lease, whether it's going to be a lease now that's going to be like something as

Jeffrey Fosgate  29:59  
well. Like to think about, yeah, but perhaps I shouldn't have said lessee earlier to imply that it's all leasing properties. Maybe rent a, rent D or renter, I suppose, but that's the I hope I didn't cause. That's fine confusion there. I

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
