Sophia Priola  0:00  
That. All right, let's get started. So what has been your experience finding housing near campus?

Grace K.  0:10  
I mean, campus is located in the business district, so finding affordable, finding affordable housing, was more the challenging part. There was definitely a good amount of possibilities, but they were just a little outside my budget range. Yeah, so for the most part, right now, the place where I do stay is a little expensive, but it wasn't that much difficult to find,

Grace K.  0:39  
as long as you have the budget for it.

Sophia Priola  0:41  
Okay, yeah. So what is the rent price that you would prefer then?

Grace K.  0:46  
I mean, I currently pay

Grace K.  0:50  
1800 for rent, and

Grace K.  0:55  
this is like in the heart of downtown. I'd preferably like to play pay somewhere around 1004 or 300 I think that's a good that's a respectable

Grace K.  1:05  
amount.

Sophia Priola  1:06  
So would you say that the prices has been your biggest barrier finding housing near campus? Yes, yes. Okay, awesome. So what are the features that you would like that? Wait, what are the features? Are there any features you would like to see to make your experience better?

Grace K.  1:26  
Features in terms of what? Okay, let's skip that one

Sophia Priola  1:30  
I just read that was like,

Sophia Priola  1:33  
How far are you willing to commute to school?

Grace K.  1:39  
Anything under

Grace K.  1:41  
40 minutes. 40 minutes. Okay, this is absolute maximum. Yes. So what would

Sophia Priola  1:45  
you look for in a potential roommate?

Grace K.  1:50  
Of course, we

Grace K.  1:52  
got to respect each other.

Grace K.  1:54  
Cleanliness is also like a really big part. And aside from that, it's just good communication. I'm pretty open to having people over or sharing this space, as long as that, as long as we're able to respect that we are sharing the space together.

Sophia Priola  2:10  
Awesome. So as a student, what would you want to know about a property before renting it?

Grace K.  2:16  
Probably hmm, probably what. I don't know if there are any noise complaints or other with how the other tenants interact with each other, if there has been any complaints as well.

Grace K.  2:40  
Aside from that, aside from that,

Sophia Priola  2:45  
I'd cap it at that, yeah, probably like the redundant things, like how far it is in prices. Um, so what would you like to know about a property's landlord before renting it? Because I know sometimes landlords can be difficult, yeah, yeah.

Grace K.  3:05  
I think I'd want to know how,

Grace K.  3:09  
how good service delivery is, in terms of when we actually do have problems in the apartment or something, how well they'll be able to or how quickly they can act on those things.

Grace K.  3:21  
I think that's one of the bigger things that I look for in a

Sophia Priola  3:23  
landlord. Yeah, definitely.

Sophia Priola  3:27  
So have you experienced any difficulties in renting properties in the past, like landlords commuting? I know you said prices, but yeah.

Grace K.  3:41  
No, not really,

Sophia Priola  3:42  
no good experiences so far.

Sophia Priola  3:46  
Well, then are there any things that would be a deal breaker for you? Then what would be deal breakers?

Grace K.  3:59  
I probably have to bring it back to

Grace K.  4:05  
service delivery from from the landlord. Honestly, if there are things like rodents, which he fails to, like, try to address noise complaints, which you know he's also neglecting, it's a lot of negligence on, like, the landlord's part,

Sophia Priola  4:22  
that and maintenance issues probably, like, If your dishwasher breaks, you don't want to

Grace K.  4:27  
be waiting three months the plumbing as well. Yeah, whenever, like, things get clogged, especially in the sink or or in the bathtub, I hate it. My current landlord, just, like, doesn't, doesn't handle that. Like, really well, yeah, they'll send someone over. That person looks like two minutes, and then it's still there.

Sophia Priola  4:50  
Yeah. That is annoying, yeah. So besides some of the features that maybe you can imagine would be in main Pathfinder, are there any other ones that you would like to see that would help you navigate better trying to find Housing like

Grace K.  5:14  
I think perhaps

Grace K.  5:20  
recreational activities, oh, yeah, around the area in which I'm hoping to, like, rent out I know that. I mean, we are in college and does get busy and stuff. But also being able to just, like, step away from that and finding cool things to do, yeah, might also just like, be really beneficial, especially for your mental

Sophia Priola  5:42  
Yeah, definitely Well, thank you so much.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
