Sophia Priola  0:01  
Yes. Okay, let's get started. I'm here with Kaylee parody. So what's been your experience finding housing near campus?

Kalie Paradis  0:11  
I found it to be very expensive and unaffordable.

Sophia Priola  0:16  
All right, so what's the price of rent that you would prefer if

Kalie Paradis  0:20  
I was paying just by myself, preferably anything under $1,000

Sophia Priola  0:25  
yeah, I agree. Has this been your biggest barrier finding housing around campus, or have you run into any other problems?

Kalie Paradis  0:33  
Um, definitely, just the pricing for sure, without feeling like I have to have a million roommates. Yeah, true. How far are you willing to commute to school

Sophia Priola  0:44  
if you were to be paying for housing around school,

Kalie Paradis  0:48  
if I were paying for housing and then commuting from what I'm paying for? Yeah, if I'm paying for rent, I'd rather not pay much for gas too and mileage, so probably like 20 minutes, yeah, fair.

Sophia Priola  1:03  
What are some things that you look for in a potential roommate,

Kalie Paradis  1:06  
cleanliness and respect? Probably, yeah,

Sophia Priola  1:12  
what would you want to know about a property before renting it?

Kalie Paradis  1:16  
I'd want to know if anyone died there. Yeah. I

Kalie Paradis  1:26  
i The appliances that comes with, yeah. More importantly, what

Sophia Priola  1:32  
would you want to know about the property's landlord before moving somewhere?

Kalie Paradis  1:36  
If he's what's the word? If he has good response time if I need something fixed. And, yeah, he's reliable.

Sophia Priola  1:43  
Yeah, definitely. Um, what would you want to know about your roommates before renting your property with them?

Kalie Paradis  1:51  
Um, if they are good with their money, if I know that, they'll pay, like, their half of everything on time and then again, like, just them, like being clean and considerate?

Sophia Priola  1:59  
Yep, I know this is a little bit redundant, but have you experienced any difficulties in renting a property in the past? If so, what so this can go? Can be like price experiences with roommates, landlords, like all the things that I've mentioned before. Have you had any troubles with those in the

Kalie Paradis  2:20  
past? Um, no, not particularly, but I know a lot of people who have had to move back in with their parents because pricing is so high. Yeah, true.

Sophia Priola  2:30  
How frustrating has commuting been to college so far this year?

Kalie Paradis  2:35  
Oh, very frustrating. Takes a lot of time out of my

Sophia Priola  2:37  
day. Yeah, understandable.

Sophia Priola  2:41  
Um, if you had to rent out a new property right now, what would be one thing that would motivate your decision the most? Would it be affordability, size, proximity to campus?

Kalie Paradis  2:53  
Probably affordability. Because if it's affordable, I wouldn't mind driving farther.

Sophia Priola  2:57  
Yeah, definitely.

Sophia Priola  3:00  
Um, are there any aspects of a rental property that would be a deal breaker for you?

Kalie Paradis  3:06  
Um, probably, hmm, I'm trying to think, if it didn't have parking, but didn't have parking, yeah, I think, and then, yeah, it'd be, like, way too much with no parking, like having to pay for parking as well. That probably, or if it didn't have, like, a dishwasher. probably, or washer or dryer.

Sophia Priola  3:25  
Yeah, so I told you a little bit about the main pad application that we're creating Um, is there any other features you would like to see on the main pad finder that would help you

Kalie Paradis  3:35  
out. Um,

Sophia Priola  3:39  
no, no, says, good. All right. Thank.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
